Improve FHIR Datastore docs (#5484)
medplum/medplum: packages/docs/docs/fhir-datastore/updating-data.md

---
id: updating-data
toc_max_heading_level: 5
sidebar_position: 3
---

import MedplumCodeBlock from '@site/src/components/MedplumCodeBlock';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import ExampleCode from '!!raw-loader!@site/..//examples/src/fhir-datastore/updating-data.ts';

# Updating Data

Medplum offers three FHIR operations that can be used to update data:

- `update`: Replaces the entire resource
- `upsert`: Replaces the entire resource and creates a new one if the specified resource is not found
- `patch`: Updates only the specific element(s) that are requested.

## Update Operation

> Using the `update` operation is performed by sending a `PUT` request, which will create an entirely new version of your resource, rewriting every element. When sending an update request you must include the `resourceType` and the `id` of the resource you are updating, as well as the updated resource itself in the body of the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `update` operation is performed by sending a `PUT` request, which will create an entirely new version of your resource, rewriting every element. When sending an update request you must include the `resourceType` and the `id` of the resource you are updating, as well as the updated resource itself in the body of the request.
```

- If it does not find a matching resource, one will be created from the given data.
- If multiple matches are found, an error will be returned. In this case, more specific search criteria are required to unambiguously identify the resource to be updated or created.

Medplum provides the `upsertResource` method on the `MedplumClient`, which implements the `upsert` operation. The function takes a `resource` and a FHIR search query to find the resource to be updated.

The below operation searches for a patient to add a name to, and creates it if it cannot be found.

<details>
<summary>Example: Upserting a Resource</summary>
<Tabs groupId="language">
  <TabItem value="ts" label="Typescript">
    <MedplumCodeBlock language="ts" selectBlocks="upsertTs">
      {ExampleCode}
    </MedplumCodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">
    <MedplumCodeBlock language="bash" selectBlocks="upsertCli">
      {ExampleCode}
    </MedplumCodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">
    <MedplumCodeBlock language="bash" selectBlocks="upsertCurl">
      {ExampleCode}
    </MedplumCodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</details>

## Patch Operation

> The `patch` operation performs a `PATCH` request, which updates only the specified elements in your resource. When sending a `patch` operation, you must include the `resourceType` and the `id` of the resource, as well as the patch body, containing the operation, path, and value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `patch` operation is performed by sending an HTTP `PATCH` request, which updates only the specified elements in your resource. When sending a `patch` operation, you must include the `resourceType` and the `id` of the resource, as well as the patch body, containing the operation, path, and value.
```
